Tutorial - Chatgpt analytics (#8183)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/chatgpt-analytics.md

---

> title: How to set up analytics for ChatGPT

Reviewer: +1 on this point

1. Set the event to `chat_completion`
2. Click on **Total count** to show a dropdown. Click on **Property value (sum)**.
3. Select the `total_cost_in_dollars` property.

Then, change the chart type from **Line chart** to **Number** (or however else you'd like to visualize your data). Note that it may show `0` if your total cost is smaller than `0.01`.

Additionally, you can also breakdown your costs by model. To do this, click **+ Add breakdown** and select `model` from the event properties list.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={TotalCostLight} 
  imageDark={TotalCostDark} 
  alt="Total ChatGPT model costs in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

### Average cost per user

This metric helps give you an idea of how your costs will scale as your product grows. Creating this insight is similar to creating the one above, however we use **formula mode** to divide the total cost by the total number of users:

1. Set the event to `chat_completion`
2. Click on **Total count** to show a dropdown. Click on **Property value (sum)**.
3. Select the `total_cost_in_dollars` property.

> 4. Click **+ Add graph series**.

Reviewer 2: If doing this immediately after setting the visual to "number", they might need to swap back to trend.

> 4. Click **+ Add graph series**.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click **+ Add graph series** (you may need to switch the visual from `number` to `trend`)
```

> 5. Keep the event name as `All events`, but change the value from `Total count` to `Unique users`.

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't you only care about users of the LLM feature? Doesn't matter that much though.

      });
      const endTime = performance.now();
      const responseTime = endTime - startTime;

      posthog.capture('chat_completion', {
        model: chatCompletion.model,
        prompt: userInput,
        prompt_tokens: chatCompletion.usage.prompt_tokens,
        completion_tokens: chatCompletion.usage.completion_tokens,
        total_tokens: chatCompletion.usage.total_tokens,
        input_cost_in_dollars: chatCompletion.usage.prompt_tokens * selectedModel.token_input_cost,
        output_cost_in_dollars: chatCompletion.usage.prompt_tokens * selectedModel.token_output_cost,
        total_cost_in_dollars: inputCostInDollars + outputCostInDollars,
        response_time_in_ms: responseTime
      })

      // your existing code...
```

Then, after capturing a few events, create a new insight to calculate the average response time:

1. Set the event to `chat_completion`
2. Click on **Total count** to show a dropdown. Click on **Property value (average)**.
3. Select the `response_time_in_ms` property.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={ResponseTimeLight} 
  imageDark={ResponseTimeDark} 
  alt="Average API response time in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

> ## Next steps

Reviewer 2: Not sure if you need this section tbh, feels like you've covered all of this :)

Author: Cool. Felt like I wanted to include some other examples of metrics to look at

> We've shown you the basics of creating insights from your product's ChatGPT usage. With this, you can uncover important data related to your app. Below is an example of product questions you may want to investigate further.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've shown you the basics of creating insights from your product's ChatGPT API usage.  Below is more examples of product questions you may want to investigate:
```

4. Click **+ Add graph series** (if your visual is set to `number`, switch it back to `trend` first).
5. Keep the event name as `All events`, but change the value from `Total count` to `Unique users`.
6. Click **Enable formula mode**.
7. In the formula box, enter `A/B`.

Once again, note that it may show `0` if the number is smaller than `0.01`.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={CostPerUserLight} 
  imageDark={CostPerUserDark} 
  alt="Total ChatGPT costs per user in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

### Average API response time

ChatGPT's API response time can take long, especially for longer outputs, so it's useful to keep an eye on this. To do this, first we need to modify our event capturing to also include the response time:

```js file=App.js
const fetchChatGPTResponse = async () => {
    try {

      // your existing code...

      const startTime = performance.now(); 
      const chatCompletion = await openai.chat.completions.create({
        messages: [{ 
          role: "user",
          content: userInput }],
        model: selectedModel.name,
      });
      const endTime = performance.now();
      const responseTime = endTime - startTime;

>       posthog.capture('chat_completion', {

Author: ```suggestion
      const inputCostInDollars = chatCompletion.usage.prompt_tokens * selectedModel.token_input_cost
      const outputCostInDollars = chatCompletion.usage.completion_tokens * selectedModel.token_output_cost
      posthog.capture('chat_completion', {
```

---

> title: How to set up analytics for ChatGPT

Author: ```suggestion
title: How to set up LLM analytics for ChatGPT
```
